Objective
To create and host a static website using an Amazon S3 bucket.

Prerequisites
AWS account with necessary permissions to create and manage S3 buckets.
Static website files (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, etc.).
Tools Required
AWS Management Console
Text Editor (Optional for editing HTML/CSS/JS files)
Procedure
1. Login to AWS Management Console
1.1. Open your web browser and go to the AWS Management Console.
1.2. Log in with your AWS credentials.

2. Create an S3 Bucket
2.1. In the AWS Management Console, navigate to S3 by searching for “S3” in the services search bar.
2.2. Click on Create bucket.
2.3. Enter a unique bucket name. Ensure the name is globally unique and doesn’t contain uppercase letters or spaces.
2.4. Select a region close to your audience for better performance.
2.5. For Object Ownership, choose ACLs disabled (recommended).
2.6. Block all public access should be unchecked. Acknowledge that you want to allow public access (necessary for a public website).
2.7. Keep the remaining settings at their default values and click Create bucket.

3. Configure Bucket for Static Website Hosting
3.1. Go to the Properties tab of your newly created bucket.
3.2. Scroll down to the Static website hosting section and click Edit.
3.3. Select Enable for static website hosting.
3.4. In the Hosting type dropdown, select Host a static website.
3.5. Enter the name of your index document (e.g., index.html).
3.6. Optionally, specify a custom error document (e.g., error.html).
3.7. Save changes.

4. Upload Your Website Files
4.1. Navigate to the Objects tab of your bucket.
4.2. Click on Upload.
4.3. Drag and drop your website files (HTML, CSS, JS, images) into the upload area or click Add files to browse and select files.
4.4. Ensure that all your files are uploaded to the root directory (unless you're using subdirectories).
4.5. Click Upload.

5. Set Bucket Policy to Allow Public Access If requred else skip to step 6
5.1. Navigate to the Permissions tab of your bucket.
5.2. Scroll down to Bucket Policy and click Edit.
5.3. Copy and paste the following JSON policy, replacing YOUR_BUCKET_NAME with your actual bucket name:
5.4. Click Save changes.

6. Access Your Static Website
6.1. Navigate to the Properties tab of your bucket.
6.2. In the Static website hosting section, note down the Bucket website endpoint URL.
6.3. Open this URL in your web browser to access your static website.

7. (Optional) Enable Custom Domain
7.1. If you want to use a custom domain, go to Route 53 or your domain registrar’s settings.
7.2. Create a new CNAME record pointing your domain or subdomain to the S3 Bucket website endpoint.
7.3. Configure SSL/TLS with AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) if using HTTPS.

